# LR-Seg
In outdoor environments, ground segmentation is an important pre-processing task for the local environment perception of autonomous vehicle platforms and is the basis for obstacle detection, classification, and path planning. However, existing ground segmentation algorithms primarily focus on dense point cloud data and often struggle to achieve satisfactory accuracy when applied to sparse point cloud data. In light of this challenge, we propose a novel ground segmentation method, LR-Seg, specifically tailored for sparse point cloud data. Our method aims to address the limitations observed in previous approaches and provide improved performance, particularly on sparse point cloud data. To achieve faster processing speed, the method first divides the original point cloud into sub-regions of different sizes based on the distribution characteristics of the sparse point cloud data in the XOY plane. Then, the point clouds are appropriately assigned, and most of the non-ground points in each sub-regions are removed using the PCA plane fitting method. Besides, the point cloud geometric feature information within each sub-region is used to reduce over-segmentation. Finally, the non-ground points are further object-segmented using Euclidean clustering methods. The experimental results show that our method can perform ground segmentation quickly on flat and slope road sections, and the average F1 score can be maintained above 90% with an average time of 3ms, which is suitable for various road environments.
